---
layout: default
title: Glossary
---

**Application Program Interface (API)** – a set of protocols that allow different software
applications to communicate and interact with each other.
<br><br>
**Collaborative Family Reward** - collaborative custom rewards awarded if all members of the
family complete their assigned tasks.
<br><br>
**Cross-Platform Application** – software designed to operate on multiple types of devices (e.g.,
iOS and Android) from a single codebase.
<br><br>
**Experience Points (XP)** - points awarded as a progression indicator for task completion.
<br><br>
**FastAPI** – a modern web framework for Python that supports the creation of RESTful APIs.
<br><br>
**Firestore** – a cloud-based NoSQL database provided by Google, designed for real-time data
synchronization across devices.
<br><br>
**Flet** – a Python framework built on Flutter that enables cross-platform development and user
interface design.
<br><br>
**Model-View-Controller (MVC)** – a software architectural pattern that separates data
management (Model), user interface (View), and application control logic (Controller).
<br><br>
**Push Notification** - an alert received from an application to notify when there is
a new event or message to view.
<br><br>
**Reminder** – a scheduled alert generated by the application to prompt task completion.
<br><br>
**RESTful API** – an interface used to exchange information securely over the internet.
<br><br>
**Tiered Leveling System** – a progression structure where children advance through levels by
earning experience points (XP), unlocking higher value rewards as they progress.
<br><br>
**Uvicorn** – a web server for Python, used to run FastAPI applications.
<br><br>
**Validation and Verification** – the process of submitting proof (such as photos or videos) of chore
completion for caregiver review and approval.

